You
Welcome to beyond conversations
Today's episode is very exciting
it has to do with a hot topic that
Has been brewing for years or decades even but it is now
on the minds of
Much more numerous group of people
Really orders of magnitude potentially more than before
Thanks to recent developments and it is the topic of artificial intelligence
My name is David or Ben and our guest today is Ben Gertzel
Ben is a cognitive scientist
Artificial intelligence researcher. He's the cof and founder of
singularity net a
project that aims to democratize access to artificial intelligence and
He actually helped popularize the term
Artificial general intelligence which refers to the goal of creating machines that can perform
Any intellectual task that humans can?
Welcome Ben to beyond conversations
Hey David, thank you. It's a pleasure to
Go over these topics with you for what is a not the first time right you and I have been
Digging into these issues. I mean presumably since way before we met each other
I've been thinking about these things since the early 1970s, but we we must have been
talking among
Ourselves about this for 15 20 years or something quite quite quite a long time
That's correct. I am I am proud to be your your friend and full disclosure
I'm also the chairman of the singularity net
supervisory
Board we will have an event
in just a couple of days
talking about the next phase of the singularity net decentralization and
That will be also an interesting opportunity to talk about
Governance that is the reason why we are not going to maybe touch that
as much today
but
Why don't you highlight maybe
Some aspects and recent developments of the singularity net
ecosystem
Which is developing so
rapidly and so broadly
that I'm sure
Just you know mentioning a few of the most recent components would be would be helpful
Yeah, so I've
Been thinking about the singularity and the the future and
AGI before the term singularity or AGI became became became current right and and
I've been
working on trying to build
Thinking machines or build toward the building of thinking machines
Actively since the mid 1990s now as soon as the internet came about in
The in the in the mid 90s and the dot-com boom in the late 90s. It was it was clear to me, you know a
In one way or another
the birth of the singularity and AGI and all this was likely to be
Distributed widely across a bunch of different machines rather than being in just one
Super computer sitting in some secret lab or in in somebody's basement. I mean not not that this
physically centralized approach
Was impossible, but it just didn't seem to be the way
Things were going right like I mean, I'd known Danny Hillis. It was building the connection machine this massively parallel
AI supercomputer and it was brilliant and fascinating
But the tech world was obviously evolving in a in it in a different direction both in the physical infrastructure being distributed and
the emergence of collaborative networks of people in
Far-flung places working working together to bring things into being so actually I
Started thinking in 99 2000 about how do you use strong encryption and
and
Distributed processing and how do you bring these together to create?
Distribute decentralized AI networks without a single owner or controller almost some
Emergent aspect to the intelligence in the in the network, you know, I ran into serious
Practical obstacles at that time. I mean I was working with Java 1.1. It was just really
Really slow machines didn't have the ram they do now networks fees weren't what they are now
I I didn't hit upon the idea of starting with decentralized money
Instead of decentralized AI if I had I would have been Satoshi, which unfortunately
I'm not and my AI projects would be tremendously better
Founded although we're not doing incredibly badly, but you know, it was clear then as soon as the internet came about it was really clear
You needed decentralized control and then when if you fast-forward to 2015 I saw Ethereum came out and
You had the notion of a smart contract which was clear to me immediately
Was neither smart nor a contract. It's really sort of a persistent script sort of involved in a
Decentralized validation and consensus mechanism and I hated the Solidity language from from the get-go just as a
Computer scientist and from up from a programming language perspective, but it was clearly the beginning of something incredible, right?
Like you were you were able to write these relatively simple
I'll be ugly looking scripts that were sort of nodes in this global world's computer
Which it would seem by putting the right thing in those scripts
You could then make them nodes in the in the global brain, right? And this this was super exciting
This led in 2017 to me founding
Singularity net which was
basically an attempt to make a
platform for
allowing multiple AI agents to
cooperate and collaborate in in
Flexible ways so from an AI view
The idea is somewhat like what pioneer Marvin Minsky called the Society of Mind
and I don't I'm not actually quite as far in that direction as Minsky, but
His thinking was inspirational here
He was Minsky was looking at a human mind or any mind in his view as a
Society of smaller agents each carrying out particular
Fragmentarily intelligent functions and then all cooperating together to achieve sort of emergent dynamics of intelligence now minceki
means he didn't like nonlinear dynamics and complexity and chaos which perplexed me because there's a strong emergence aspect to the
multi-agent systems that he himself was was putting forward he was a complex and
Fascinating character unfortunately isn't with us anymore. I'd love to bring him back if post-singularity
Techno technology
Allows, but anyway with singularity net we basically created a decentralized blockchain based platform
for multi-agent systems anyone in the world can put put an agent online they can
Have that agent announced by the singularity net protocol. Hey, I'm here to all the other agents running the SNP protocol
Then they can they can pay other agents and that work for services. They can outsource work for them
They can cooperate together doing tasks. They can rate read each other's
Reputations and we we rolled out a version of this platform a few years ago. It's still getting better and better. So I
Mean we're pretty close to rolling out what we're calling the AI DSL domain specific language for a eyes, which is a special
Programming language for the AIs to describe their properties and capabilities and preferences to each other
Which is a key ingredient to allow automated assembly of different agents into into
Collectives in
In building this though, we realized there was a lot of other
Missing pieces you need to get a whole decentralized
Text stack which leads to some of the other
Interesting things going on in singularity net
Ecosystem right because sing singularity net
We have we have the core protocol and platform built by singularity net foundation and an open source community
Then we have a number of different
Entities which are part of the ecosystem that are building stuff using this platform or
building sort of foundational tools
Complementary to the core singularity net platform forming part of sort of decentralized tool stack and that that gets into new net which allows
decentralization of
Processing power and tokenization of processing power in a flexible way suitable for AI
then the open cog
hyperon toolkit which is our
Probably main thrust in terms of how to actually build a GI on this decentralized
Platform and you can build a GI in any way you want on singularity that platform
Hyperon is our particular sort of neural symbolic evolutionary approach
Which we'll talk about more in a few minutes when we get into a lot of lans and stuff and then then there's hypercycle
which is a
collaboration with two fee saliva and dense toliver and folks from the
Tota ecosystem and
hypercycle
Like new net and hypercycle both live in a way below singularity net in the tech stack
Right new net tokenizes the processing power itself
So if you can contribute processing power for tokens and receive tokens for processing power and that process power can then run singularity
agents or other things
hypercycle is a layer one blockchain
customized for AI and
You can run singular on
Ethereum we can we're most of the way there to making able to run it on Cardano as an alternative and Cardano
We found more efficient and scalable than Ethereum for AI purposes hypercycle
Customized blockchain just for for AI will let singularity net decentralized AI agents run in a much faster and and more scalable way
And I mean hypercycle is designed
To work very closely with Cardano in particular
But it's a different design we get rid of the ledger
So that's probably more than we can go into in depth in this in this call
But if you look at Ethereum Bitcoin and so on they're all based on this replicated ledger that stores all transactions have ever happened in the blockchain
Right so in in hypercycle
We get rid of this ledger and store transactions sort of fractionated all throughout the network in a more localized way
And this this lets you have a much more efficient blockchain underpinning for for
Decentralized AI so we we've been working hard on all these aspects of a decentralized infrastructure
And now we're feeling a need to like move way way way faster even than we then we've been doing because we see like the
Centralized tech be a moths
Well, I don't think they have the golden key to a GI the centralized tech be a moths are certainly getting
extremely interesting AI
functionalities
Thank you for that that introduction to the singularity net ecosystem and let's now as you mentioned jump over to LLM's
large language models a lot of people in
like
moving goal posts and
Always defining AI by the things it cannot do
When it couldn't play chess very well
People would say oh AI is
Playing chess and then when it could beat every human
Suddenly it it wasn't chess anymore. Now. It seems to be
natural language processing
and chat GPT which
Now everyone knows I am sure everyone following this
video stream
Is able to manage text in a manner
that I would say
many humans cannot do it creates a
text that is
competent
in many many different fields now a
a
That was sufficiently surprising including two experts
to
generate a
Particular alarm
Not about what it can do now, but it
What may be able to do in in the near future and there was this open letter
A
Formulated by the future of life
Institute at MIT and signed by a bunch of people and not signed by another bunch of people and by the way
We belong to those two different camps. I did sign the letter and you didn't and
I feel that these these agreements are very very healthy
Especially in a decentralized and distributed world if we were in complete agreement and alignment about everything
Then there would be no reason
To experiment with different approaches and we would just be in a single
hierarchical centralized field
so a
The open letter has been interpreted and in misinterpreted in many ways
but
very simply it says
Let's in my opinion it says
Let's give a little breeding space
for
everyone to understand what is going on
especially
To those who are in charge at these large tech companies and the regulators
who
Should be moving faster and should be looking at what these tech companies are doing
Six months, which is the pause of the open letter is not going to be sufficient for sure
But at least it raised the conversation about this need so
Two questions to you
one
What
Makes you feel that
This is
Not necessary or not useful
and
to
What are the things in your opinion that are missing from the large language models?
that
would
require the kind of
careful
Steps that the open letter advocates
So I think as the singularity approaches
And I think it is approaching I
Still see Ray Kurzweil's prediction of human level AI in 2029 as a reasonable stab
I mean, I think we may get there a few years in advance of that
I'm pushing for that. It may take a few years longer, but I don't think it's going to be
Many decades longer
I mean if it turns out somehow human level intelligence requires
You know advanced quantum computing or quantum gravity super computing maybe that could make it take a few decades longer
I give that a not zero but very low percentage
Chance based on everything we know about the brain and everything we can do with with computers now
so if that's true that the singularity is coming in
Five to ten years three to ten years. Whatever at least
Human level AI coming then which will certainly accelerate the next stages of progress towards super superhuman AI
there's going to be a lot of
crazy things going down a
lot
More impressive and a lot more disturbing to some people then then chat GBT which in the end is a
Rather banal and only half useful chatbot
Although very very very impressive in in many ways compared to what what came before right and I think in in dealing with these sorts of
unprecedented
crazy seeming situations
Some basic
Principled thinking is is helpful. Otherwise when we just swung around like crazy by the wild weird things that are
That that that are happening and so max more who we both know who's been one of the leading philosophers of transhumanism
Articulate some time ago what he called the
Proactionary principle which was intended as a contrast to the precautionary principle that others had talked about and the
precautionary principle is basically
Better safe than sorry hold off on new developments
You know until you know for sure they're not going to cause harm and this
This was the principle of Australian indigenous society for which allowed them to be
fairly
constant and stable for 60,000 years and they had they developed many things of great beauty in this in this stable
Society and develop their consciousness and dimensions that are not that common in our modern world
It's been a principle in Chinese history. Certainly. I mean if you look in the 12th 13th century China had
quite advanced technology all sorts of machinery and so forth and then they they sent
sailing ships all over the world and then they decided to
Stop that because it was being disruptive and they didn't know where it was going to leave right now
Modern Western society has generally not proceeded on on this sort of basis, which is really
Why we've developed computers and AI and the internet and modern medicine and gone to the moon and all this stuff, right? We have
Implicitly and with a lot of argumentation
Along the way, we've largely followed what max called the
Proactionary principle which basically means
You know get have a bias toward doing stuff and not making prohibitions and a buy bias toward letting processes
Unfold in a in a natural way without trying to blockade them
It doesn't mean there's nothing that you should ever prohibit and and and try to stop
I mean, I'm not advocating selling briefcase nuclear weapons in Walmart, right? But it it means that when when there is
Complex technologies complex situations with you know richly nuanced and balanced pluses and and and minuses and
It's hard to understand the implications for good or for bad in a situation like that
the proactionary principle would argue
Just do it and you know keep an eye out
Watch watch to be sure. You're not doing anything extraordinarily dangerous, but don't don't be
Paranoid don't be a wimp and you know look at look at the the cost of not doing something along with the costs of
Doing that thing and so justifying
Proaction versus precaution
on a sort of historical societal and philosophical level is
Very interesting and important would be would be a long long and deep
Conversation which gets into epistemology and metaphysics and all sorts of things, but I wanted to mention that because
In general, that's where I'm coming from and I think that attitude
Is why we have advanced technology. That's why we have
Modern dentistry and and vaccines and then computers and so forth
I mean this is why this is why we have
developed weird new technologies
Which in every case we didn't know what would be the good or bad aspects and how they would be
They would be balanced, right? So I do think they're
They're cases
Where you don't want to be proactive no matter how
Gonzo for the for the the future you are. I mean briefcase nukes is one
gain of function research on
Viruses it can infect humans is certainly an interesting borderline case which society chose to proceed with
anyway in spite of
Some pretty obvious risks to do to do with the leakage from from from labs and so forth
But the thing is with with these technologies
nuclear weapons
Have very few uses besides blowing people on their possessions up
I mean you can use them to blast starships as as freeman dyson
Suggested but by and large they're considered a weapons technology. I'm you know taking animal viruses and
Uplifting them so they can kill humans better again. There's not a lot of immediate
Humanitarian uses for that. I mean the the the the purpose is to better understand them in case they develop later in
In nature or something, but I mean AI is different than that, right? There's tremendous
obvious positive benefit of these technologies and so then
Bouncing the cost of not building the attack against the cost of doing it is complex. But what this also means is that
If you try a prohibition
Many many actors who are not particularly bad actors are going to wangle the way around the prohibition
Anyway, I mean the only reason to what to wangle around a prohibition on briefcase nukes
Is pretty much if you want to blow people up or you're a really really really ethics free conniving business person who
Wants to make a living selling briefcase nukes to other jerks who do want to blow people up, right? But
reasons to keep developing AI are just
Extremely numerous beyond wanting to do any anything bad. So I think there there are two things that are sort of mixed up here
And they're mixed up in a very natural way. So what what what what one one thing is
I think this sort of prohibition is
Ethically very very dubious because balancing the good and the bad of this sort of technology is very very hard
The other thing is
This sort of prohibition will never work and is completely
Impossible in practice and I think these are tied together because when the good and bad are all tangled up and complex and hard to assess
You know this kind of prohibition is going to be way way hard to put into place because
So many parties won't won't go along
Along with it any anyway, right and you can you can see both the aspects with this proposed
Six-month pause. I mean, I think chat gpt l lm's and so forth are not
general intelligences
they're not going to be sort of
Incrementally morphable into general intelligences just by tweaking the architecture a little bit
I do think they could serve as components of general intelligences
And whether the llm component
Is 60 percent or 20 percent of the final general intelligence
I'm I'm more toward the 20 percent side, but I think I think there's still a very interesting
Ingredient in in agi systems that that that are going to be built, but they're not agis yet
They're software systems. They're very interesting software systems
I'm engaged with a few people building amazing commercial applications on top of llm's. I'm also engaged with some research
Trying to couple llm's with logical reasoning systems to make them make more sense and carry out multi-step reasoning
So that can they be used for unpleasant things?
Of of course they can be used for unpleasant things. I mean they can generate a lot of
Nonsense so people can be tricked to believe it's not nonsense
I mean if we're going to ban things that people can use
To fool people and spread bullshit. We're going to ban the whole internet and mobile phones very
Very rapidly and these also have complex pluses and minuses that we don't we don't know
We don't know how to balance. So I just think there there's clear potential for tremendous good from these
There's potential that they serve an ingredient of agis that they can do even more good
There's also ways people can do
Harm with them. I see this is not different than
So many other technologies out there and the the practicality of a pause is a whole other thing because if you if you
If such a pause were really adopted on paper, which is obviously not going to happen anyway
So I think signing the petition is mostly virtue signaling rather than anyone thinking the pause was really going to happen
But I mean if if such a pause really did happen
I mean what would happen first of all Putin and Xi Jinping aren't going to do that pause
Even if they said they were they're not going to china can't even debate the world trade organization sort of basic
Ethics about not stealing other people's ip right so on the other hand big tech companies like at google and microsoft and so on
They're not really going to pause either. They're just going to develop a i
Internally and use it inside the products in the in a quieter way rather than making it available to the consumer
So if such a pause were adopted, which it won't be that would result in a combination of
nasty dictators
gaining in ai over the
Democratic world and it would result in greater
Centralization of ai within the developed world as big big tech companies take their lm projects black and don't open them up to the
to the consumer so I think
But I think almost everyone can see this and they just want to sign it so they could look like they're ethical and
Concerned right because because that
well
We have a lot of questions from
the people following
The live and I want to
Tackle some of them and they are
Touching these these topics, but let's start with a different question from Rohit
What is the picture behind the wall?
On the wall behind you
Oh that that orange picture. I think that's yes
That is the that is the album cover of access oldest love by by jimmy hendrix. So go
All right
Listen to access boldest love one of the great great albums in music history
All right, Rohit. So you can check it out
and
David is asking
Why is the mainstream pushing the ai is going to kill us all narrative?
And then he proposes
a benign answer saying maybe to create a common alien enemy
to
unite us and the and the wars between nations
so
to to
answer david in pot
in
ai deserves a lot of conversations and
I hope
more would happen especially
Illustrating the benefits of of ai like ben said in a in a pro-actionary
attitude
And the mainstream media is driven by fear is driven by the the the worst possible narrative
That attracts attention. So it is natural that they would
um
Push push that
in on on the other hand
it is
definitely the case
that
There are
Approaches that we have taken to iteratively
Develop solutions. For example
The the SpaceX rockets that are now landing regularly
Belonged to science fiction
And nasa or the russians
Or the chinese or the europeans
Would have never developed them
if
Crazial and musk didn't come around and said i don't care that everyone says it's impossible
I will just blow them up until we don't succeed
And so that is where the alignment
issue comes up
because
There are people who believe that
Not current agi, but future agi
can
Become agente
It can design and then execute goals of its own
And it can slowly
Diverge
And then the side effects of whatever it does can have very big effects on us
and both
The speed of its divergence and
The size of these effects can be such to represent an existential threat to human civilization
Without us being able to say after the fact
Oh, sorry, we destroyed the current one. Let's bring a new human civilization in its place and iteratively
Find what works?
so
Again two questions
Do you believe this framing of the alignment problem?
is
Worth considering now
Given that by your own assessment
The singularity
May be as close as five years from now
and the second question is
If
We don't have a current solution to the alignment problem
What are the paths that we need to take in order to find those solutions so that we have them when we need them?
Good good questions. Yeah, I want to I forgot to say one thing about the pause
Which I want to address briefly then I'll go to this more bigger and deeper more interesting question
I think another strange thing about the pause petition is it focused on training larger and larger language models
so so one one thing that was ironic when I saw that is well actually
If people really stopped training larger language models and started working on more productive approaches to agi
Then that might actually have the opposite impact of what people signed the petition thought that might accelerate the path toward agi
Sam Altman actually made the same point in recent remarks at mit. He's like well
This lacks technical nuance because what we're doing at open ai now is not so much just obsessing on bigger models
Anyway, I mean they're integrating gbd forward with microsoft knowledge graph
They're working on a lot of other
Other things besides just bigger and bigger models. So this is a difficulty of prohibitions on complex things
Like you you're going to say no no language model with more than you know
One trillion parameters. What if someone makes a complex valued parameter which equals two real valued
Parameters, right? I mean what what if you have five different models with half a trillion parameters living in different places that that that
Co-operate with with with each other. I mean it's these things are too
slippery
Inter the same reason the software patents are much harder than biotech or nuclear energy patents or something, right?
There's slippery in there in their definition
As well as slippery and balancing good and bad aspects in the in in the short term and I think
Yeah going to the align alignment question now
I I don't
really like
The word alignment that that's used in in discussing the
future
coordination of ai mines and
and
human minds, I mean I understand what people are
Getting at when they talk about ai alignment. I don't want to nitpick on on word choice in too much of a
Ridiculous way, but to me
There's nothing to align with because human
Morals human ethics human ideals human ideas
are
Intercontradictory and kind of scattered all over the place and they're also
rapidly
Devolving right so I mean if you look if you look in at, you know, indigenous
Australians at
You know
Asians at at the average Ugandan subsistence farmer at
you know
Islamic people in in rural Saudi Arabia and then look at people in the tech hubs in the US today
Right now. There's tremendously different views on
so many things and
if you roll back
50 100 years
There were divergent views among these different groups, but also each of those groups have a different view than they then they have now
where like, I mean when I when I was growing up
in
New Jersey in the 1970s in part of my childhood
I mean you would get the crap beaten out of you for being publicly gay or even being suspected of it
Now that's not true in New Jersey anymore, but you can get killed for being gay in many parts of sub Saharan Africa, right?
So there there's there's not a coherent thing
To align with at any level of precision and the way humanity thinks about what's good and right
50 years from now post-singularity
Is going to bear only a loose resemblance to how we feel
Now, I mean, I think some things that we take very much for granted now or like a
Focus on our biological family, right? I mean, that's a big thing for me
Five children and a granddaughter. I live near my mother who's almost 80. That's a big thing if you're
We're post-singularity people aging and death is is gone
Reproduction doesn't happen to happen have to happen in the traditional biological way, although it may still sometimes
I mean the the whole role that
family has
In psychology may be quite different 50 years from now than then then now and this may sound very disturbing
To some people now. I mean just as
You know gay people were very disturbing to the people I knew in New Jersey in the in the in the 70s, right?
So I mean things evolve. So then we're not saying take
you know the world view of
San Francisco
Silicon Valley tech bros in
2023 and make future agis always aligned with a world view of 2023 silicon valley tech bros, right like that
That's not what we want any more than we want to forever be aligned with
You know the the elite in Rome in 1521 or something, right?
So what what you want is somehow for the the chaotic self contradictory evolving system of human values to
be
Coordinated and co-evolving somehow with the evolving set of of
AI and transhuman and synthetic organism values and that that's
That's that's an interesting thing to think about. It doesn't seem like the kind of thing that can be
Guaranteed in any way nor the kind of thing that you can pre figure and and design in a in a detailed way
We're talking about the coupling of two pieces
Two subsystems of a complex self-organizing system, which by its nature is
Going to be evolving in ways we cannot now
Understand so I mean you have people talking about we want an AI that will provably never deviate from its initial goals
I'm like shit. What if what if the pope had created an AI in 1400?
That would provably never deviate from the goals the pope gave it and it was super powerful
And it would we'd all be forced to be
Catholics at risk of being blown up by AI drones coming out of the Vatican or something, right?
I mean
That that would be a tremendously horrible thing to do to a superhuman mind
If you could somehow wire its brain to never deviate from the goals of 2023 silicon valley tech bros
Fortunately, there's no way to really do that anyway
So
I
cherish our diversity
and we have
the ability to
Aggregate and we have built societies that
either accept develop or impose
a certain set of consistent views and behaviors
And and today as a human civilization we brought this at
Roughly speaking continental level, right?
There are different kinds of
Expectations of of behavior from humans
within societies and across
societies as well, but we more or less subscribe to
certain sets
of behaviors and expectations around those behaviors
So
The opportunity I think is huge
for
singularity net
to find
a way for the decentralized
AI and agi systems
to
navigate
The complex sets of behaviors
across
a parameter
space that is vastly larger than not what humanity has been able to explore
today
to find
consistent and coherent
a
niches
that can build
desirable futures
Both for them as well as as well as for
ourselves
current and future humans
Under an admittedly broader definition of what it means to be human and what it means to be
Living a dignified life than not what medieval
Expectations would would support
so
Ashley is actually asking
how far is
Singularity net from agi
Considering that open cog is very robust, but not there yet
Well, so from a singularity net new net hypercycle view the technology is
somewhat agnostic to what approach you
Take to to building toward agi on top of it and we have a project called
Zarko as the ARQ a which we're spinning out now
Which is pretty much building LLMs to run decentralized on on singularity net new net hypercycle platform, right?
And we will enhance those LLMs with open cog or whatever other interesting tools come up come up certainly
but I mean you you can you can do LLMs you can you can do other sorts of of
neural nets you could build
Totally different sort of of AI system. You could build paywangs non axiomatic reasoning system, right?
You could do anything that can be
Implement modern software languages and we can we can we can decentralize it
and that that I think that's it's
important both as a modular
software design
and in terms of
Building a community I want to attract people developing weird new AI ideas on onto the platform that that that said
my own
agi research effort is still oriented on
on the new version of open cog, which is called hyperon and
I I think
in the next
One to two years
We're going to get to a
massively
Scalable version of open cog hyperon and I mean we're we're making quite good progress. I mean we have we have a distributed version of open cogs
metagare
base the adams space which is built on top of mongo db and and and couch base and we're
We're working on a massively
accelerated
Compiler and execution engine for open cog hyperons agi programming language meta
which which basically works by
Compiling open cog meta code
Into roland code that runs on the on the roland interpreter that was developed in the r chain blockchain
So we we've got a bunch of interesting stuff going on the infrastructure side
There's a collaboration with simulai rachel st. Clairs company out of florida on building an optimized
Chip for open cog pattern matching and then an ag agi board as well. So I think we we
Have a lot of
different thrusts going on to make
massively scalable
Infrastructure for open cog hyperon as well as as well as ongoing r&d on the mathematical
Foundations of how to get
large language models and other deep neural nets logical reasoning and then evolutionary learning to work together and I think this is key because
You know llm's and other other generative neural networks are great at recognizing and synthesizing patterns
Logical reasoning engines are better at telling truth from false. So then carrying out, you know, multi chain logical inferences
evolutionary learning
Simulating natural selection and the computer is good at creativity, which is how evolution created us
So I think getting these three ai paradigms working together in this distributed network is
is going to be
big and I think I think that
If we didn't exist in open cog
The mainstream of big tech ai would get to a similar place eventually you can already see
They're taking llm's and they're glomming microsoft knowledge graph onto it and google they're glomming google's knowledge graph onto it
Why because they want to ground it in reality and eventually they'll want to so solving the
hallucination and bullshit problem is
High on the list and integrating with knowledge graphs that can do reasoning is an obvious route there
Their knowledge graphs are not as advanced as the one we have in open cog
But then once the bullshitting problem is solved
Then there's the banality problem of just yes, it's amazing chat gbd can write poetry
But on the other hand, it's all really bad poetry, right? So then how do you how do you get it to be?
creative and and
Inspired like people are and I think then then you're going to inevitably move towards some sort of evolutionary
Algorithm approach. So I think I think big tech will get there to the ingredients that we have already
in the open cog design, but if we can get there faster by deploying open cog hyper on its scale on a
decentralized infrastructure
I mean, then we're doing a couple different things, right? What one is
you know, we're
Past where big tech will get because they're fixated on the particular
Techniques that will best leverage their their advantage in in data rather than on on techniques or not as as
As data training data set bound
But the other thing we're doing is we're making it so that hey lo and behold
the next big breakthrough the breakthrough from
To agi happened
In the decentralized ecosystem rather than the centralized ecosystem, right now if you're if if you're
Nick Bostrom or Elias or Yadkowski, that's going to seem far worse than having it happen within a centralized company because
from the mindset that some of these ai ethics
Buffins have right they they would rather have a small group of people controlling the agi
So so so so then the small group people could be convinced to shut it down
Whereas if you have an agi rolled out in a decentralized way where it's running on millions of different machines in every country on the planet, then
nobody can
Turn it off in such a simple way now
It's not to say humanity couldn't shut it off if humanity is a whole one or two
I mean, that's like think about bitcoin or ethereum. I mean, how would you shut down those networks?
It's not easy for a government to shut down those networks if bitcoin or ethereum. We're going to kill everyone
Well, yeah, people could just start running their nodes, right?
I mean, I mean so and if you have a majority of people who will refuse to confirm transactions
It won't get confirmed, right? So being I mean being
Decentralized in a blockchain based mechanism
Doesn't mean like this will run them up and if all humans wanted to stop it. They couldn't they couldn't stop it
I mean eventually things could get there, but that's not implied in the in the use of a decentralized fabric
But it but it it does mean that it started to shut down in the same way that
Bit bitcoin or bit torn or something are hard to shut down as long as long as there's a substantial group of people
With a bunch of hardware who who want to keep the thing going that then it will keep going and
personally
I see risks either way like having having a centralized entity
Could be the best if the people running that centralized entity are open-minded open-hearted
Compassionate normal individuals who don't don't fall prey to the pathologies that have befallen
Almost every group of humans in an elite power position in human history, but it's possible. It could go well
That decentralized approach has the downside that
You know nasty groups of people could try to take over the network
They can form the open source code. They can try to do do their own unpleasant thing
Right, so we are placing a bet on the vast chaotic
team of unwashed masses of humanity over
self-appointed elites with huge amounts of of money and close military intelligence connections, right? So you I mean
neither neither one is
an
incredibly
safe and certain
path forward
my
view is that
a fundamentally
compassionate
and human benefit oriented agi
Is a bit more likely to emerge from the the decentralized
approach
I don't think this is the thing you can have a completely solid like mathematical proof of right because we're we're not just talking about the algorithms and structures
we're talking about how the human systems
in interact with the
with the compute
fabric and the ai ai algorithms, but I think there's
lots of reasons to be
optimistic. I mean, I
I think
You know with the advanced technology we have right now
You could have so much more destruction in the world that then then what we have but
In fact, there's remarkably few groups of highly competent technically trained individuals out there
Who are massing together to put their energy toward killing a lot of people are causing that causing mass destruction
like you I mean you you don't have a situation like the
you know the amount of people behind
Say a strong tech startup say Anthropod or stable diffusion just not to hover my own company
so the amount of money and energy behind
A startup tech company and the brilliant people going into it and the money going into that hardware
You don't have initiatives like that focus on blowing up a lot of people or or
Reaching great mayhem in the world right you could you could theoretically right but in in fact
In fact the mass of technical innovation
It's going toward making people money
Some bits of it are going toward doing doing doing good for people some things may may may may go awry
but what what what we what we see is
On on the whole most
humans who are
banding together in groups to advance technology are
Are actually not trying to do horrible nasty shit with it right and then I think
I think that's going to continue
It's going to continue as we move toward agi in an open and decentralized manner
There are a lot of people following the
the the stream asking questions
evidently very
passionate about these
Let's let's let's try to do a few quick questions and if I can I can try to give some short answers
one of them one of them is quite
general, but
But I think important
If they want to get involved with
the project what kind of talent what kind of skills
Both in the core as well as in the ecosystem projects are most valuable
In order to further the missions of of singularity net and of the single ecosystem projects as well
There's a great variety of skills that are
Are useful for advancing
Singularity net ecosystem projects and other projects out out there which are which are
advancing
you know singularity
Oriented technology in in in beneficial ways. So I wouldn't want to
Be rigid about it. I mean because I mean we're working with lawyers. We're working with social media people were
We're working with all people from all different walks of life as well as
The more obvious things like AI developers software engineers
Blockchain developers, but biologists cognitive scientists and whatnot, but as a generalization
I would I would I would say
People who can spit so I mean if you have the mentality and interest to be a core agi developer
That's great. We can always use more people who know
Chit loads of math computer science engineering and so forth right if if that's not your thing
I would say there's always a need for people who have
mastery of some other some other domain area and a decent knowledge of AI because when you're trying to
Apply AI and say biology or
Supply chain or media or whatever it is
It still comes down to some small group of humans who understand that domain
And have a decent sense of the AI to make to make that bridge
AI is not yet figuring out how to apply itself in one after another
Critical area. So I I think we're entering an era where
cross-disciplinarity is
is
Going to be key and and highly valued
The day after tomorrow there will be the decentralized governance
summit
What can people expect?
To to find there. What are the the kind of contributions that you will also provide as well as the other speakers?
Yeah, good question. So
you know making
A decentralized AI network has a number of aspects and I've tended to focus on the technical aspects
Just of how do you get large-scale compute processes of the sort you need in AI
To actually run across a huge number of machines without a central controller because there's
There's a huge load of hard technical problems you have to solve to make this
Happen which we're working on in Singularity that new net hypercycle open cog to agi zarka, blah, blah, blah, but I mean the
the other aspect to
making AI
fundamentally decentralized
is
governance of this
Network right because it's not all about the computing yet
All the all these compute nodes in your decentralized network
Are run by people they have to they have to decide to run run this software on their machine
They have to decide one to one to upgrade
upgrade to a new version of software there will be decisions about the
Parameters of the software and the network that have to be made for now by the people who are running the software nodes and
And the people who are using using using the software running on the nodes, right? So there's
There's a significant governance aspect to decentralized
AI networks
as well when we founded Singularity Net in 2017
one of our goals was to gradually
Transform the governance of the whole Singularity Net network into a a DAO of some form a decentralized
Autonomous organization not meaning initially would just be the AI nodes making the decisions, but but meaning meaning that it would be a
democratically governed network of humans and and
and AIs with the whole collective of participants in the network playing a meaning meaningful role
in in in the ongoing
Decisions of evolving the the network over over time
So we've we've had
Some measure of that so far. I mean we've had some pretty big decisions in the history of Singularity Net
Made by community vote and and community discussion
But we haven't gone as far in that direction
as I would I would like to have and so that basically
the governance
powwow that summit that we're having on on the Friday is
oriented toward pulling together
you know various people involved in different aspects of Singularity Net ecosystem and
gathering energy toward
in the next
two years, how can we transform Singularity Net
into a radically more
decentralized organization where the breadth of participants
in the in the
Network are playing a greater role in making the important decisions about the evolution of what happens in the network and
I mean I picked the timing of two years in my head
with a couple things in mind one is
I don't want to rush things to an insane degree because we're doing very valuable stuff and I don't want to
Disrupt it in some stupid way and there are many pathologies that that that we've seen in the blockchain world from from
From Dow governance on the other hand, you know if if we could get to human level AGI in three years
Then I want to have
Fundamentally and fully decentralized governance
Before that because I think it's going to be key in the transition from their AI to to AGI
In all sorts of ways. We can't prefigure now right like I'm I'm a big optimist about what happened after the Singularity
More based on my heart and and soul and feeling the based on rational analysis because I think based on rational analysis
the confidence intervals just
Very wide and there's a lot that we can't rationally know but I I have a strong
Faith that things are going to come out pretty amazingly once we have superhuman AGI that we've raised up in a compassionate and democratic way
but I can see a lot of risk of
Chaos unfolding en route to this utopic future and I think that having the
network in which AGI emerges
Fully decentralized and very richly democratically governed
that gives a lot of
important degrees of freedom for how the emerging
AI network
Sort of deals with any chaos that happens between here and the singularity. So I think this is it's both
It's both the direction we committed to when we founded Singularity Net and
potentially could be really really
important to humanity if the breakthrough to AGI
Happens within the Singularity Net network, which is obviously what we're pushing for
And
I know that you are
also
Going to be at a couple of events that you wanted to you to mention
in
the consensus
in Austin and
Yeah, events are coming back right so spending a couple years sitting. Yes, and
And
Web Summit go ahead
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I think
Events have come back right during the pandemic. I was mostly sitting home
working on AI on blockchain and playing with my kids and now
Now
Conferences are back. I'm trying to keep it under control so I can keep getting work done, but I'm going going to
Consensus event in Austin
Next week I'll I'll be doing a
Conversation or interview with Edward Snowden on AI and the security where we'll
Hit on a bunch a bunch of these same points
also doing a
Concert at the Speak Easy Club where I'm playing keyboards with the jam galaxy band with our robot lead vocalist
Desna Mona the Sophia robots
Little sister there'll be a bunch of Singularity Net people
around around the consensus so definitely
Come come and hang out with us then
following that I'll be at
web summit Rio and also doing an AI meet-up in
In Rio on one of the evenings of web summit and I was I was born in brazil way back in 1966. So I'm a
The world's worst brazilian citizen because my portuguese is is horrible
But I'm I'm a dual citizen us in brazil always always feels good to
To go go go back to the to the motherland. So there's a yeah, if you're if you're gonna be in australia real then
You know, there's a bunch of singularity people people around in the next next few weeks, but of of course
The core work we're doing is distributed around the globe and you can you can get get involved on the
On the interwebs if you go to Singularity Net
I owe you can join that join mailing list and find various get however repose and
Telegram linked in and and ever everything else. We encourage people to get involved these will be
The next few years maybe the last few years that you have a chance to help bring about a beneficial singularity unless you're
Be doing it in some post-singularity video game or something
Uh, Ben, uh, this was wonderful. Thank you very much for covering so many of the topics and
I'm sure that there will be a lot more to talk about and
Congratulations for everything that you have been able to
accomplish
with
Singularity Net
everyone in the teams
and
Good luck with further developing all the projects and I will see you at the decentralization summit
Just in a in a couple of days
We will both
be speaking there to talk about
governance and how to
ride the tiger
Really in the next period of time. Thank you again
Thanks a lot. David. It's been a pleasure
Thank you, uh, everyone for being here with us today at beyond conversations
I am sure that there will be a lot more opportunities to
Ask questions and to really
Find out how technology is impacting and benefiting
Society around us
Goodbye
You